>> Hello, everyone out there in the live stream. Thank you for being here. We're just about
to kick off the show. Please put your questions and comments in the live chat. And if we can,
we'll make that part of the Ask Me Anything. That's probably the best way to do it. Kim
and Patrick, you guys ready to kick this off? >> Yeah, sure.
>> Right on. Kim and Patrick, welcome to Talk Python to Me.
- Good, thanks for having us.
- Yeah, should I say thank you for having me?
It's different, right?
This is a bit of a unique one.
So thank you both for being here.
I've selected you to represent the audience
in this Ask Me Anything episode,
which should be a lot of fun.
So yeah, it's great to have you both here
and helping out with that.
- Yeah, good, looking forward to it.
Should be good fun.
- Definitely.
- Yeah, I agree.
So you were sort of guests on the show
until you turn the tables, I suppose.
So let's give you a quick introduction,
just a little bit of background about yourself.
Kim, I'll let you go first.
How'd you get into programming
and how'd you get over here onto this show
to interview me?
- Sure, in terms of programming,
I've been, or I'm a electronic engineer by training
and I did electronic engineering type work
for 13, 14 years or so.
Mainly producing television satellite decoders
at a facility based in Durban in South Africa.
So we made satellite decoders
and I did all sorts of areas on that
with C and low level embedded programming and so forth,
but slowly moved my way into PC programming.
And for the last couple of years,
I've actually been full-time software development
using Python mainly for DevOps work.
Although DevOps means different things to different people.
In my case, it's process automation and what's the word?
Industrial is not the word I'm looking for,
but process automation and infrastructure as code
is the word I'm looking for.
That's the kind of thing we do.
So I've been probably writing Python since university days,
which was not terribly far off 20 years ago.
So I've been using it for quite a while.
- Yeah, those are pretty early days of Python.
You know, that's at least two thirds of its life, right?
- It was 2.3, 2.4, something like that.
Yeah.
- Yeah, absolutely.
Well, that sounds really fun.
And were you happy to be moving away
from more low level stuff or do you miss it?
- Yeah, I don't miss it a great deal.
I don't miss writing C.
But I enjoyed it when I did it, but I don't miss,
I don't know if I'd go back to it now,
but yeah, I thoroughly enjoy the kind of thing I do now.
- Yeah, I feel the same way.
I did a bunch of C programming at the beginning
and I'm really glad I had that experience.
I'm also really glad I don't have to continue
having that experience.
- Exactly.
- Awesome.
All right, Patrick, how about yourself?
- So I don't have the experience that you two guys have,
but so my first, I think my first course in programming
was during my physics studies
where I had a C++ course, just basic introduction.
And I didn't really, I liked the idea of programming,
but I didn't like the language that much.
And during my PhD, I was mostly working with Mathematica,
also some C++ and old Fortran code for simulations.
But after my PhD, I started as a traffic planning,
in a traffic planning company as a transport modeler
and data analyst.
- Modeling traffic and stuff like traffic lights
and traffic traffic.
- Yes, traffic.
- Okay.
- Traffic modeling for cities and areas
and stuff like that.
- Keep the A4, A6, is that,
what are the Autobahn names there from clogging up?
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
That was also a big part, yes.
Modeling that stuff.
That's the most interesting
for some of the economic companies there is.
So yeah, I think my first task there was like converting
some old VBA code to Python that transferred structural data
from an Excel database to another program,
which was horrible.
Yeah, it was absolutely horrible.
And I immediately realized that I hated VBA and loved Python
and that's where I stuck.
And later I joined Germany's biggest drugstore company
and I'm now there a data engineer for tracking data,
mostly working with Python
and the Hadoop PySpark ecosystem there.
- I see you live pretty solidly
on the big data, data science side of Python.
- Yeah, I'm more into data science,
data engineering, more data engineering.
So it's really a lot of software engineering.
- Right. - Yeah.
- You know, I recently had Tobias Macy on the show.
We talked about the whole data engineering landscape.
And it's really interesting.
Like I kind of lost track of paying attention
to the data pipeline stuff.
And there's a lot of neat tools
that are coming out in that area.
- Yeah, there is actually,
but it's always hard to migrate
from an existing infrastructure to something new,
but you always have to.
So it's a steady flow of new stuff that's coming in
where you have to adapt.
Yeah.
- Yeah, yeah, absolutely.
All right, cool.
Well, thank you both for being here.
Let me just give a quick summary of this
Ask Me Anything episode for people watching and listening.
So people ask me questions all the time.
They'll shoot me a message over email and say,
"Hey, here's this thing you should check out,"
or, "This is interesting, I got a quick question."
"Oh, by the way, here's a question about the podcast
in this way or that."
Those have obviously been building up over time.
So I thought it might be fun to just let you guys come on
and basically ask those questions
and you two get to be the audience for everyone out there.
And so we collected some questions previously.
I tweeted this out and maybe mentioned
on one of the podcasts,
let people fill out a form and ask their question,
which is actually how you two got here, right?
'Cause you both need to ask a question
and there was a checkbox,
would you like to be the interviewer of this whole thing?
And so that's great.
And so what we're gonna do is we're gonna start
with some of those questions we collected previously,
but then I could see people like Hong and Daniel and Sam
all in the audience and other people coming.
Maybe there's gonna be some questions from the live stream
that we do on YouTube as well.
So, Patrick, I guess we can kick this off
and what's the first question?
- So the first question is by Martin Boros.
So a little bit of background.
So he's listening from Germany.
- Yeah, sorry, let me also add,
everyone put a little tiny bit of background
about themselves.
And so just to kind of make them more part of the show
as well, these guys will like fill that in
just a tiny bit as well.
Yes, go ahead, Patrick.
- Yeah, so he's listening from Germany.
So hello from Germany to Germany.
So I think I started around 2016.
I love the show's wide range of Python related topics
and also the sound quality is usually very good.
Yes, that's true.
The question is, what's the first Python code
you ever used professionally or got paid for
and is it still in production?
- That's a great question.
So what is the first Python code that I wrote in production?
Well, the first that I got paid for.
So really when I started into Python,
I was working as a full-time as a software trainer.
So I would go around and teach courses
And I used to previously do C# and .NET and C++ and stuff,
and was super happy to move over to Python
and do more of that.
So the first things that I did around that space
was really like a bunch of little example projects
and things I kind of explored
so that I could teach those ideas to other people.
So it's, I don't know, it's possibly someone took that
and put it into production,
but it's not really the type of code like,
oh, I deployed this one website or I built that website.
And then, you know, after that, I started realizing
just how neat and powerful Python was,
started doing some little small projects with it.
And probably the thing that's still around, honestly,
is Talk Python, the site itself is the oldest piece
of Python code that I've written
that's still around and doing anything.
- Cool.
- Yeah, so I think that's probably the first one
back in the day.
It's tricky, I wasn't working at the time
writing that much software as a software developer
when I found Python, I would say.
So yeah, there you go.
- Yeah, I would also probably suggest
quite a lot of us who write Python,
a lot of our Python, if it's still in production,
was only ever run once or twice
'cause it was a quick script to fix some problem
that the rest of the system had and so forth.
So it's still around,
but not necessarily ever looked at again
'cause it fixed the problem and it was solved.
- Exactly.
I've got a huge folder of like these are the things I need to run to solve problems or get like a little report
Really quick and I honestly forget if they even exist, you know, I'm like I pretty sure a couple years ago
I wrote this thing that'll you know
I'll put this data or summarize this for me and I could do it again
But maybe I can find that script and yeah, I just I did one of those like yesterday or the day before
Yeah, I think it was monday. Yeah
Yeah
All right
Next one, yeah?
- Yeah, onto the next question.
It's maybe just worth noting,
I think I forgot to mention up front,
we very loosely grouped the questions together.
So we're going through a set of kind of
software related questions,
and then there's a couple of the software industry,
and then a couple of them,
the more podcast specific itself.
- Yeah, sounds good.
Hey, before we do that,
the follow up from the live stream, Samuel.
- Yes.
- How much of the original Talk Python code
do you think is still remaining
versus how much has been refactored over the years?
Super interesting.
I would say a lot of it has been additive, right?
You know, people maybe think,
oh, it's just a podcast site.
Like it does a whole bunch of little small things
behind the scenes that are not super obvious.
Like just a couple months ago,
I added the ability to have the site
like transform during live streams.
So if you pulled up talkpython.fm right now,
like there's like a sort of the whole site is like lit up.
Oh, we're live streaming right now.
And it'll like take you over there.
And right, like you don't get that with say WordPress.
So there's a lot of stuff behind the scenes happening.
In terms of the biggest stuff that was ripped out
and refactored is it originally was written
with SQLAlchemy talking to a relational database.
And then after a year or two, I switched it over to MongoDB.
We collect tons of data.
There's like, I don't know,
gigs of data in the database and millions of records.
So I'm like, all right, it's gonna be better
to switch this over and I like it better anyway.
So switch that over.
Probably it just ripped out the data layer
and put in this new one, that's probably the biggest change.
Yeah.
Oops, uncheck that, there we go.
Hey, go ahead, Kim, I just wanted to make sure
we chat some that while we were still on the topic.
- Yeah, no, sure, sure.
The next question that was submitted is from Mahadi,
who describes himself as a long-time listener,
first-time caller who does automation and data science.
There's two questions here, I'll ask them both
at the same time, you can just tackle them,
obviously, together.
First question, are there any new courses
or content or projects that you're currently working on
that you can share to your listeners?
And the second question, you've done an amazing job
covering almost every major Python framework,
what you love about them and what you dislike.
As a professional content creator,
what are the exact features that you're looking for
in a Python web framework?
Not including the common features,
but subtleties that may just make up your mind
about switching to that framework.
- Okay, awesome.
That sounds like three questions, right?
- Well, more or less, yeah.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Beautiful.
So first one, courses and content that I'm working on.
I have two main areas that we're focusing on.
We have a couple of authors who are working on me.
Probably the most exciting one that is just about to come out
is we have a course on Dask.
So Dask and scaling Dask with Coiled.
That's going to be a real fun series that we're doing.
I have a course on Twilio and Flask.
So basically, how do I build a chat bot that will talk
to like a backend and flask,
and then like let people, you know,
put in database, create an admin backend notifications
for like a company,
then they talk back to their customers over WhatsApp.
So that's gonna be fun.
That's coming out.
More FastAPI, which kind of leads into
the next one of the other questions.
- Right.
- And I'm thinking, I haven't quite got there,
but I'm thinking of doing a year long YouTube channel
of something like a five minute,
here's a cool thing in Python this week thing.
- Oh, right, okay.
- Just like screen sharing and like,
hey, let's just jump in and,
oh, did you know about micro or ultra?
Was it ultra?
Ultra JSON, look, you can use it like this,
but it's faster or something like that.
- Oh, that'd be nice.
- Like a single highlight out of your other podcast,
basically.
- Yeah, exactly.
- Python bytes occasionally highlights a package
we may not know about, yeah.
- Exactly, like so Python bytes,
but like, let's actually write some code
and see it on the screen real quick sort of style.
So that's in terms of content.
Then you, the other one was about--
- Yeah, basically--
- Web frameworks, go ahead.
- Yeah, about Python web frameworks effectively,
what is it that you're looking for in one that you,
given that you seem to have covered quite a few of them,
what is it you like most about the ones you like?
- I would say two things that really attract me
to paying attention to those.
One is the sort of modern features, modern feel, right?
If it's using type hints, if it's using async,
those kinds of aspects,
it feels like it's leveraging what Python is now
and not what Python used to be.
So those aspects of it make me excited.
But the other thing in terms of
when would I think that it's important to pay attention to
or when would I think of switching to it
is I look at basically the derivative of the popularity,
the number of stars, the number of people that tell me
I should be covering this,
the number of articles you see about it.
So like how fast is it growing and how much excitement?
So for example, like FastAPI, I would say
is probably number one in that rate of growth category
right now, and it also touches on the modern features
with Pydantic and whatnot.
And it's not say as popular as Django or Flask.
I think it's, if you look at the adoption,
I think it's one third compared to them.
You look at the GitHub stars, it's 50/50,
but it's only been around for two years
where those other frameworks have been around 15 years.
So to be almost as popular, like 50% as popular,
but from, you know, in just two years,
that's a pretty big indicator that people are excited
about it, at least at the time.
That is, yeah, I was about to say,
granted if you're half as popular as Flask
or a third as popular as Flask
and you've been around far less, that is impressive.
- Yeah, exactly.
It's a big deal.
And I think it's because these other frameworks,
while amazing, it's hard for them to say,
oh, we're gonna change how you write the code
and use like type pens.
And you can see both those frameworks
are working on their strategy to switch to async.
Whereas with FastAPI,
like literally the getting started out of the box
It gives you an async server,
it's you can write async view methods if you want or not.
And it's just, it's unencumbered in which I think
is one of the things that's given an advantage
over the others.
- Perfect.
- Yeah.
- Thanks, I think that pretty much
comprehensively covers that.
On a side note, I do recall in previous episodes,
you've made reference to building your site on a pyramid.
- Wow, so is it?
- Yes.
- There's a pyramid.
- There's a little bit of a fact there.
- That's also obviously one of your favorites.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah, there's a little bit of Flask
in there as well for like some services that are,
no one would know about or see.
Maybe our search microservice type thing might be in Flask.
But yeah, I'm a fan of Pyramid.
I like it a lot.
I think it also is in the situation where it's hard
for it to make major changes to adopt
some of these new features, right?
One of the things that attracted me to Pyramid
is it's a clean, simple, small framework that lets me go,
oh, I'm gonna use relational,
oh, and I'm gonna switch to Mongo,
and I don't have to negotiate with the ORM
and the admin integration,
and I can just decide how it's gonna work.
And for me, that's good,
'cause I've been building web apps for a while.
I don't know that's necessarily good for everyone,
but for me, that was a big positive.
And also, Pyramid was one of the first modern frameworks
to massively embrace Python 3.
I remember when I was choosing between Flask and Pyramid,
Pyramid's like Python 3 straight away.
This is like where we're focused.
And Flask was like, figured out a statement like,
yeah, it'll probably work on Python 3,
but we've tested on Python 2.
I'm like, if I'm starting from scratch,
I don't really wanna have that as the way that I feel like
I really want this to work on Python 3, right?
So that was part of the thing that I think is
not really relevant now, but it's part of the decision
when I decided to go with it.
- Yeah, that makes a lot of sense.
- Yep.
- Cool.
- Thanks Patrick, I think that's pretty much that.
Yeah, that was all of them from that question, yeah.
- Okay, cool.
So I'm going to ask the next question,
which is from me, so I'm not going to introduce myself.
- Yeah, you've already done so, yeah, perfect.
- So, yeah, in my opinion,
the addition of f-strings in Python 3.6 was the game changer for convincing many people
to finally drop legacy Python. Many libraries today only support Python 3.6 and greater,
and I know that some of them did so because they wanted to use f-strings. Do you think
pattern matching in Python 3.10 could be a similar milestone, or do you think the current
controversies around pattern matching will continue once Python 3.10 will be released?
I've been thinking about pattern matching.
It's really interesting.
It's like a switch statement, but much, much more, right?
And that's been approved.
That's pretty recent news that that's been approved
and will be in Python 3.10, as you've hinted, Patrick.
I also agree that f-strings were major.
And I think it's interesting to just look back
on the history of Python.
Like one of the biggest challenges
of switching from Python 2 to 3
was around the way that strings behaved
in like a bytes versus strings
where it used to just kind of be all the one thing.
And it's kind of amazing to me that such a simple,
oh, we're just changing this one data structure
has so much influence, right?
That you'd switch back on three, six
because f-strings are awesome.
Or you would be resistant to switch from two to three
because the way strings works changes.
But I think it's true.
Yeah.
- So will pattern matching be that?
I don't think so.
You know, it's, I think, let me rephrase that.
I think for certain use cases, absolutely.
And I think the way that pattern matching is set up,
particularly it's really useful for things
where you're kind of doing, I don't know,
maybe almost a reg X type of work
where it's not just this value equals that or that,
like the name says, I guess, pattern matching, right?
And you're writing a parser or something like that.
Maybe it's really, really important.
But to me, it doesn't feel like it's gonna make
a major difference.
I would say it's more gonna be a walrus operator
than an F-string.
Which is not to disparage the walrus operator.
I've come to love that thing, actually.
I really like it.
It's like, especially I think in the data science realm
where you have to do things as a single statement,
single expression, like a list comprehension or something, you can really do nice things
with the walrus operator, whereas you could create a variable and assign it and then test
it. That's not something that's as easy to do without multiple duplication or whatever
in say list comprehension. So these sort of places where you work in one line expressions,
I think actually the walrus operator is really super powerful. So I think there'll be something
like that where there's a slice of types of problems that you solve, like yeah, this is
the answer. And 90% of the world will go like, what's pattern matching?
>> Well, yes. >> I must say, just to chop onto that, in
terms of the if strings, to come at it from the other side, I didn't move to Python 3
because I wanted to get access to if strings. As is, I stuck with 2.7 long after there were
three's available for legacy reasons and that's what the stuff I'd written was written in and
for a variety of reasons but because it's what I was using for my day-to-day job it's what I was
using for my personal stuff as well I hadn't bothered moving to three but having now finally
done that I'm not prepared to go back without the f-strings you know the f-strings are just
and it's not just f-strings but f-strings are a nice a very nice thing to point you to say
this is why I'm staying with Python 3 I'm not going back I'm not giving these up.
- I totally agree.
You know, it's interesting.
Python has many ways to format strings.
You've got the percent modulo thing.
You've got dot format.
You could even do a plus if you had to.
All those kinds of things.
And now f-strings.
- Yeah, I think the most underrated thing is this.
When you have an F string and an expression
and you say letter equals.
And it brings a nice output, like letter equals letter.
That's pretty nice.
I think it's a 3.8 thing.
- Yeah, I think that's nice. - Which is bad
because we use a lot of 3.6 currently,
but we hope to, hopefully we are soon switching to 3.8.
- Why is this crashing?
Yeah, I've definitely broken the server.
I took down the website once, one of my websites,
by using the walrus operator in a little side script,
but it tried to parse it,
and it was on 3.7 at the time.
Anyway, yeah, you gotta stay back a little bit.
Yeah, I think what's interesting is like,
f-strings are now both faster and cleaner and shorter.
There's always been these trade-offs,
like, "Oh, this is faster, but this is more maintainable."
Now it's just clear.
So I think f-strings are actually pretty important.
I, but I would put pattern, Patrick,
I'd put pattern matching in with like
Walrus operator level in my guesstimation here.
- So it breaks your code.
- Yeah.
- It will, yeah, I think I run it every night on the server
if I try to put it out too soon.
- Can I just suggest maybe before we move on
to the next question, a comment's just come on from Piotr.
There've been a few previous comments to do with courses,
which I think might make more sense to get to
when we get down to the podcast side,
but this one looks like it might fit in here quite nicely.
- Yeah, very.
- Basically, Piotr, and my apologies,
in fact, my apologies to everyone whose name I mangled
if I mangled it wrong during the podcast.
basically Pyotr saying, his question,
what do you find more exciting these days?
Web development with Python on the backend
or machine learning and AI?
- That's pretty interesting.
What is more exciting?
I mean, I think there's philosophical exciting
and then there's what am I excited to sit down and write?
And for me, there's something beautiful about
just sitting down and building an API
that you can put out there and just builds a website
that feels super smooth.
Like, you know, the web is so critical to us today
and you go around and so many sites are like loading,
loading, maybe they're like,
oh, we are gonna use a front end framework.
So it seems fast and then it fills up
and then it just has a bunch of spares for a while.
You're like, no, that's just another way of loading slowly.
You know, and having something that's just like instant,
no matter where you are, it's just like,
there's a, I get a great satisfaction
in building things like that.
And so, the day-to-day sort of,
I'm gonna go with the web development in Python,
but in the big picture, like,
let's dream sci-fi sort of world,
machine learning AI is, you know, very captivating.
- Cool. - What do you guys think?
- Thomas, I'm with you there entirely.
I don't do any web development per se,
but similarly in a day-to-day basis,
if it turns out that for a lot of my workday,
I wrote a script that did something relatively simple,
I spoke to a couple of databases and process some numbers
and maybe told us some stuff we didn't know before.
And it was a script I wrote in a day
and I ran it once or twice on the server
and we never need to do it again.
That was a good day, that was pleasing.
I sat down, I wrote some Python,
it did the job and it worked.
It wasn't, that was exciting to me.
I liked the fact that I, here's a problem to solve,
I've written some Python to solve it
and it's a neat self-contained thing
as opposed to being big picture,
let's say machine learning stuff you do for months on end,
and that's also very exciting,
but there is something very satisfying
about solving a particular problem,
you know, with some Python.
- Well, yeah.
- And Python makes a lot of it really simple.
Exactly.
- Yeah, exactly, yeah.
Patrick, you live closer to the AI world
than probably Kim or I do.
- I actually started as a data scientist at my company,
and I quickly switched to be a data engineer
because I realized that that's where the hard engineering
and the kind of real work was happening.
And without the data engineering, data cleaning,
the whole, the proper processing of data,
you cannot do any machine learning or AI.
You cannot even start.
And that's why I'm there,
to build kind of a foundation for me.
To some point, I want to more go into this data science world,
more machine learning, AI, which is really,
I mean, it's incredible what Google puts out there
with image classifiers and crazy stuff,
especially with video or pictures.
But I would also say it's really nice
to solve a problem the right way, right?
And that's more an engineering part, which I like,
which is more like a web framework where it's predictable.
And data science is, it's really dependent on the data
and that's hard, hard problem.
- There's a really cool quote that Eugene Yan mentioned
on the show last time in some of his writings,
maybe time before, but recently he was on the show
and it was that this cleaning and wrangling of data
is not the grunt work, it is the work of data science.
Right, like that's, without that, you really get nowhere.
- Yeah, it's like an iceberg.
It's 90% below the water.
- Yeah, but without it, yeah, the top thing falls under.
All right, Kim, other live stream questions
you wanna focus on now or wanna move on?
- I think, well, actually, the other live stream question
that may be useful while we're talking web frameworks,
question from, I think it's Nechmat.
Basically, that's the one.
Basically, what are your thoughts
on creating web applications using Streamlit
versus Flask versus Flask API
in terms of pros and cons and so forth?
I know you've had whole episodes talking about these things.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah, these are episodes.
I have classes on some of these.
Yeah, I've put a lot of thought into this, I guess.
So let's put Streamlit on one side and Flask and FastAPI
to the same other side in a moment.
So Streamlit, if you're unaware,
is really interesting for,
I wanna write some code that looks like procedural code,
maybe in the data science world or in a Jupyter notebook,
like do this thing, then this, then this, then this.
Oh, wait, actually what I want is an interactive website
with like a combo box and a select list and a slider
that's going to like lifetime update that on the web.
To go from that script to that front end dynamic website
without something like Streamlit
is a tremendous amount of work.
It involves like reactor view,
or requires writing APIs,
and it requires you understanding like
visualization in the browser.
Like there's a lot of pieces.
So I think Streamlit is incredible
from going from like zero to 80 or zero to 70% on that.
I've got that script and I wanna get that up.
And for many, many people, 70% is plenty fine.
Like the decision makers or the team
wanna have a dashboard where they can play with the data
and look at it and it kind of looks like this shape
and I can't do a lot of design on it maybe, but who cares?
Like they just want access to this
and it's better than an Excel spreadsheet.
It's better than like letting them query the data directly.
So I think like that's one realm.
And the other realm is I wanna build
like a production grade API
that other things are gonna depend upon and use and so on.
So that comes down to Flask versus FastAPI.
I think on the both new feature neatness,
you know, Pydanic types, async and await,
FastAPI wins.
The APIs are similar, but it's the new magic
plus the derivative of like the growth rate
of FastAPIs is higher.
So on that regard,
I think FastAPI is a really good choice.
On the other hand,
Flask has thousands of extensions you can add to it
and just make it do things really easily.
So if you would like to depend on that extension,
things that people have done for you,
you know, you're gonna get,
and you don't wanna try to do those things yourself,
you're probably better off going with Flask in that regard.
So, yeah, I mean, not everything,
Brian had a nice statement quite a while ago
that you're not Facebook, you're not LinkedIn,
you're not Google.
And I know that's a false statement
for a very small slice of the world,
but for most people,
your API doesn't have to support a thousand requests
a second, five requests a second is fine.
And you can do five requests a second on lots of data
on a $5 server.
You know what I mean?
- Exactly.
- With Flask, with no async.
So I think like, don't go too far.
And also the Flask versus FastAPI,
you can switch from one to the other pretty easily.
They're similar frameworks, you can switch.
It's not sort of a super huge commitment.
Streamlit versus those other two, that's a big deal.
That's a big difference.
- Cool, yeah. - Yeah.
And Robert says, "I agree, Flask's a great framework
for small and medium-sized web apps."
Yep, I agree.
- I'm reminded of probably not that many shows ago,
you had some of the Django chaps on,
and I recall one of the chaps saying,
he basically, he ran almost everything
on the baked in SQLite.
- Yeah, yeah.
- You can get quite far on SQLite.
That was it, yeah.
You can get quite far on SQLite,
and that was a good point.
And not everybody, not all your problems
are Google scale problems.
You don't need to roll out a cluster
of databases up front.
- Yeah, and if you write to it rarely,
and you read from it frequently,
you know, it may well be very good.
It's the thing is, you know, it's a lot of people say,
well, you gotta use Postgres if you're in relationals,
is you could do all this amazing things.
And that's true.
But my experience is there's a lot of people out there
in the world that go, I want to build my first website
or API and put it on the internet.
Oh, I also have to learn Linux.
And that's really intimidating.
Now I got to run another server in the database
in production on the internet
where people could hammer on it.
And there's all the security and just like,
they throw up their hands and they run away.
They're like, this is just too much for me
to connect these different servers securely
and maintain them.
And, you know, SQLite answer might be like, I can do this versus, ah, it's too much.
Right.
And I think in that case, it's a huge win.
There's a strong, I think sometimes overlooked middle ground.
I sometimes think we get a lot of resources for how to begin, absolute beginner.
You've never done any of this Python stuff before.
And all that stuff is brilliant.
And you get a lot of writing on, well, this is how we do it.
As you say, 1000 requests a second at huge scale and clustering.
and we're running communities clusters
over 15 different locations around the world
and all that kind of serious complexity.
But most of us aren't at either of those extremes.
We're sitting in the middle where,
perhaps MySQL is what your company's chosen to use,
for example, and it's just fine, it works.
It's not as good as Postgres, et cetera,
but a lot of these tools will meet the need.
The need isn't always as big as you think it will be.
- Yeah, absolutely.
I started out on one server, I think,
and now we have eight, but I didn't start with eight.
That would have been too intimidating, right?
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
- Yeah, fantastic.
Quick follow up from Robert.
A fair number of internal apps used by 10 to 15 people
running on SQLite.
Easy setup, easy to move from server to server.
- Exactly.
- And backup, you backup the SQLite file,
you got it backed up.
- It's baked into your Docker container in my case,
for example, and the people using it
don't even know there's a database at all.
It's brilliant.
- Yeah, beautiful.
I think, Michael, there were a couple more live comments
or perhaps any of those led to you that you wanted to take
or we should maybe ask one of the questions
that was sent in earlier.
- Yeah, Magnus had, he was in here early,
so I'll give him the chance to get his thoughts in as well.
So it says, "In your," great, thank you,
"courses seem to be favoring starting from scratch,
"creating files in order to learn step-by-step.
It's not bad per se, but have you ever thought of maybe doing a TDD workflow?
Would this add more value?
I think there's a big difference between the right way to create things for
somebody seeing it for the first time versus the right way to create things for
engineering.
And I would say in the engineering world, I would lean more towards having tests.
I'm not sure I want to start that. I've gone through some experiences where like,
"Okay, what we're going to do is we're going to build this whole project up doing TDD."
And if the whole idea is not to teach testing per se, but something else,
I think for a lot of people that can be distracting, even though it might be a little way to,
a nice way to simplify it on the small scale. And the large scale, I think that it can be,
you know, just one more thing to talk about. Like a similar thing that people say is like, "Well,
wouldn't it be great to also cover Docker in your classes
so that it doesn't matter what setup you're on.
It's like, well, yeah, but I also have to teach people Docker
and that's already its own other thing.
And I end up using SQLite a lot in all my courses
because I don't want you to have to fire up a server
and go, why can't I connect
or why can't I authenticate to this other server?
Or actually even maybe worse,
accidentally put data into it
'cause you're playing around and then forget that,
oh, that's open on the internet.
Whoops.
Like there's a beauty to just having like a laser focus
on the thing that you're trying to do.
- Exactly.
- Yeah, my stuff in production,
I would say it's not 100% code coverage.
I find, you know, that last 30, 20%, whatever it is,
like that marginal returns on that
is much farther down the road
then what is the essence of my thing I'm building?
If I was building a trading engine for stock market,
well, the core part that does the trades and pricing,
that should have tests.
The part that doesn't log in, probably not.
- Exactly.
The part that emails everybody
once a month to the marketing user.
- Yeah, exactly, right?
Yeah, I mean, it might be great to have it,
but it could be that you could be making
important contributions and the other.
I don't know.
I feel like that if you take it too far in any direction,
that like looking for 100% coverage or something like that,
often you can end up spending huge amounts of time.
Then you get in a situation where you're like,
well, it would be really better if we refactored this.
And that's not that much work,
but there's like 500 tests that go with that.
Now we've got to rewrite the test.
And it's just like, oh gosh,
well maybe we won't make that architectural shift
because what was a benefit to like supporting us,
getting there.
all of a sudden I've got all of this baggage
to take along for lack of a better word.
Anyway, that's probably a larger answer than
you was looking for.
That's kind of my thoughts on that.
- Fair enough.
There were a couple of other comments
that you've pretty much covered as well
on the same vein of testing in your courses and so forth.
- Yeah, okay.
- I don't think Brian Oken would agree with you, Michael,
but maybe you can have a course on test-driven development
so that's fine, right?
- Yeah, yeah.
If we do a course, probably Brian is gonna be the one
doing it, so I'll let him.
You know, I just, I have a very pragmatic feel
about that stuff.
Like, yes, you should have tests.
You should be able to say, if I push this to production,
is it going to crash or not crash?
Like, is it gonna do the thing that it's supposed to do?
But at the same time, I think it's also really valuable
to not put too much extra burden
and calcify your architecture and your decisions
on this package or this structure
and be able to move quick when you find
that there's something or anything.
So anyway, that's about the tension I'm trying to balance.
In my world, not to be for Ryan, right?
- If I could just maybe pick up on one of the statements
you were making on the way through,
the other thing also to all of us really have to bear in mind
is if somebody is paying you to do this,
there are a number of things you could be doing
in any given part of the day that would help the company,
which is ultimately what you're being paid for.
- Right. - It may be that writing
the last 90 to 95% test coverage
isn't actually nearly as useful as the next problem
on the list.
- Yeah, like, so you got to ask yourself,
how upset will either the users or the business folks be
if that part of the site stops working
or if that part of the application stops working
and would they be willing to accept a little bit
of uncertainty there for more features or something like that?
- Exactly, yeah.
That said, when people would ask,
oh, we need this new feature,
how much is it going to cost in terms of time and energy?
I wouldn't say, well, here's how much the feature costs
and here's how much the test costs
and here's how much the refactoring to keep things clean.
I would just put that into one and go, that's the price.
And then, you know,
then you don't have to have that discussion of,
well, yes, you can add this feature,
but please don't take time to refactor the code
so that it's not building up technical debt.
It's like, no, no, no, that's the price.
- This is all across, yeah.
- Yeah, yeah.
- Exactly.
- Yeah.
- I think maybe while we're going through
some excellent comments that have come through,
it might be worth, there's two more that just leapt out
to me that are probably interesting discussions
for most people.
There's one from Daltaguse, which I can just read.
It's basically PIPN versus VN versus Condor,
pros and cons at scale.
- Yeah.
- That's an excellent question, I think, of a discussion.
And then not quite, not actually related at all,
but in the kind of Python vein,
Pravdan has asked with all the new PIPs being merged
and people calling it a bit bloated with features,
what are your thoughts?
- Yeah, okay, I can touch on those.
I'll get both of your thoughts on this as well.
So for me,
I'm not using PIPenv, I'm not using Poetry,
I'm not using the other things,
And that's not necessarily a negative view on those.
But for me, I'm just focused on using
Python's virtual V and V stuff.
Couple of reasons, for me, it just works.
I find it simple, I don't have to make sure
I have a thing installed, I don't have to alter my workflow
from going through a tutorial.
I don't have to go, oh, well, they said do this thing,
but I'm gonna do it in this other way
when I'm talking to other people
or maybe making a part of a course,
these things they wax and they wane.
And it might be poetry this year,
but next year it's PipBimp or vice versa.
And you bake that flow into a course
and then people are like,
well, really you told me to use PipBimp,
but I feel like poetry is kind of the thing.
It's like, oh, yeah, well, you can't change those
once they're solidified, right?
And these are like months long projects.
I don't know, for me, it's not ideal.
What I would really like to see
is the PEP that has dunder pie packages accepted
and kind of like a, there's this convention of,
you know, if I've got an environment
and I just run Python stuff, it just finds the environment.
But until something like that comes along and gets accepted,
I'm gonna go with virtual environment
versus the pep-pam poetry, et cetera.
I think conda is a different story, right?
I think that the, all these other things versus conda,
is do I choose like the conda data set sort of style of supply or do I go straight with
PyPI and like the raw Python things.
So now I don't do conda because I'm mostly doing stuff on the web and something that
really bothers me about the web is every now and then you're like, oh, you need to update
random library that either your framework is your framework or your
framework depends upon because there's a CVE security vulnerability and you need
to update that hours from the time you know that not not days from the time you
know that because if you pull up logs your website you can see it's just whack
whack whack and it's constantly being hammered looking for problems and if
something major comes along you want to be able to go now it like the release is
put it up now, and the condescide often has a little bit of a lag because there's more,
you've got to build the binaries and stuff to go along with it. So that latency that's not normally
a big deal is a big deal when you are running stuff that people could be messing with and you
want to make sure if anything needs to be updated, it's updated straight away. So that's another
consideration. But if I was doing, say, Patrick's job, that wouldn't matter probably, right? Because
it's behind the scenes.
And actually, I'm using condom a computer, but mainly because I'm
used to so when I worked at my first company, I had to use a
Windows computer, and I did a data science stuff. So it's
incredibly hard to install.
Specially there. Yeah.
Yeah, some packages like geo pandas. It's, it's hard to
install this pit there. Now I'm using Linux most of the time and
there. It works fine. So I'm just using condom for my
my environments to setting them up.
Just there, I have all environments in one,
with one comments, something like pipenv,
but then I normally install just via pip.
So I'm kind of using it wrong,
but I know some of my colleagues,
especially data science people,
they use conda for running jobs in the Spark cluster.
And yeah, but we personally,
also my team, we're using pex,
which is something like.
- Oh, right.
Okay, interesting.
VNs, something like this, yes.
- Yeah, so PECs, that's a way to like package
the things you're running up and deliver,
almost like a zip file, if I remember correctly,
and then like running that directly, right?
Oh, interesting. - It's actually,
it's something like a zipped VN, yes.
You need an interpreter, by the way,
so you have to have the correct interpreter on your system
to then run this file, or run this PECs file.
So it's kind of a nice thing.
It's kind of a binary, which you can chip everywhere.
That's the thing.
You can test it on your CI and then deploy it,
test this thing on a CI and deploy exactly that
on production systems.
So you don't have to install or alter that in any way
from your test environment to production, which is nice.
- Yeah, that's pretty interesting.
It's almost like halfway to Docker, but not quite.
- Yes.
Yeah.
- Not only that, but positive or negative way.
It's just, it is like, it doesn't come
with the runtime stuff of the machine,
like the interpreter and other stuff
that you might set up like Docker would,
but it comes with everything else,
like exactly as you would put it, right?
Like the packages and stuff.
So yeah, I think this whole packaging and deploying
and moving Python applications around, it's interesting.
- It's interesting, it's changing.
We're also looking into poetry now
and let's see how this works.
- Yeah, sure.
Yeah, very cool.
Yeah, speaking of which, Magnus says,
"I use Poetry to get into pyproject.toml.
However, not be able to do editable install via pip
is a big hurdle."
Yeah, okay, interesting, yeah.
It looks like we've lost Kim from our connection.
Hopefully he will be back here, but I guess, yeah.
And Pradvan is a VNV for the win as well.
All right, Patrick, you wanna do a little bit more
and hopefully Kim will come back and join us.
- Yeah, I'm going to have the next question,
which is actually Kim's question,
but I'm going to do that.
Two within notebook themes, yes or no?
If yes, which one?
- Oh, interesting.
Yeah, so for me, I do some stuff in notebooks.
I have like accounting and you know,
what courses are popular and what are people doing there?
What podcasts are popular?
And so that kind of analysis and graphic,
do that, excuse me, do that in notebooks,
but boy, it's just the plain old JupyterLab notebooks,
nothing super fancy, right?
I looked at some notebook themes after this question
and they look really cool.
Maybe I should check it out.
You probably spend more time in notebooks than I do anyway.
Have you done anything with it?
- I don't know if I spent more time,
just some basic stuff to play around with code.
I think it's superior to IPython,
just the way the UI works.
And I played with Jupyter themes once.
I tried some, but always at some point,
there was some weird thing with the CSS, in my opinion,
and I didn't like it.
some table formatting stuff or...
- Right, that's a challenge, right?
Like it's how comprehensive is that theme going to be?
And once it breaks through and then like,
oh, it looks good, it looks good.
Oh, it looks horrible.
I can't even hardly,
and if it gets to the point where you can't even make sense
of like some graph or something, then it's out, right?
- Yeah, and also like the, for example,
I played a lot with bouquet and then also
It didn't really fit in that theme, right?
It just like wide and everything around it is a star
and it didn't just feel right.
- Yeah, yeah.
Hey, Kim's back.
Welcome back, Kim.
- Oh, sorry about that.
- Yeah, no worries.
- He's back.
- Still a little slow, but still a little glitchy,
but hopefully you can hear us okay, but no problem.
We're still going.
Yeah, so I don't know.
I like the idea of themes.
I've also, you know, say like PyCharm has like themes
and stuff that I put in there.
And I'm always, oh, this one is great.
Then I'm like, ah, but this part, I don't know.
And I don't know, I've, there's something to be said
for just going back to the plain old standard.
Yeah.
I guess another important question, Patrick,
is font ligatures or no font ligatures.
Are you familiar with those?
- Yes, I am.
I have no feeling about that, really.
- Okay, nope.
- All right, all right, yeah.
I kind of like them, but I know that people see them like,
why does your code look weird and whatnot, so.
- I also normally don't use them because I have the feeling
that it's changing stuff that's not in the code, right?
It's a bit weird.
- It is weird, I kind of like it.
I kind of feel like I live in the future when I use them.
The thing that's okay with me is they've changed
way it looks, but only for me. All right. They don't actually change the meaning. But
yeah, they are a little bit crazy. All right. Maybe catch a live stream question from Moomten.
What would be the best Python project types to do to learn some cool things you can do,
things Python can do maybe? So Patrick, I want to get your thoughts on this one as well.
I think it depends on where you want to go.
You know, people ask me this often, it's like,
well, do you want to go down?
I want to build websites and web APIs and stuff.
Then there's a series of things that you can do there
to get you down that path.
And if what you want to do is you want to go down
the data science or data engineering side,
there's a different set of things that you should learn
to go to it.
Like, so you should be playing with Jupyter
and you should be playing with pandas.
But if you want to go do stuff on the web,
you could completely ignore those things.
So I think you wanna decide in the path
that you'd like to take
and then start on really small stuff, right?
Like, you know, what I'll give you an example
of something that I have to do all the time.
I've got a course folder full of MP4s
and I need to turn those into what is the file name?
How many seconds long is it?
What is the resulting title of that going to be?
And I used to just go through by hand and go,
okay, we'll go to the finder.
All right, this is a minute 30, so that's 90 seconds.
And then the title of the file is this.
And so the title is gonna be that.
And you do that for 150 files,
you're probably gonna make a mistake.
It's not fun.
So I decided instead of complaining about that
week after week, I wrote a script
that would read the file structure,
do some stuff to figure out the time,
generate the output that it needed, and boom.
Like all of a sudden, now that's an instant answer
instead of an hour long project that's error prone.
Everybody's life is full of these little types of projects
like, oh, this is super annoying
not to do this all the time.
Why do I have to keep doing this?
I keep making the mistakes.
I do it at the end of the week because I wouldn't put it off
and if I do it frequently,
like the repetition of it just turns up my day.
And there's probably a way to do that in Python
and make it run in five seconds or less.
And then that just completely changes the way
that you approach like that part of your life.
Like, well, that's solved, that's automatic now.
What else can I do?
And so, Patrick and Kim as well, what do you guys think?
- Kim go ahead.
- Basically, sorry, I dropped out just slightly,
but fair enough, the best Python project types
to do cool things.
I would find in all honesty,
exactly what you're saying there,
what I ended up doing a lot of with Python
when I learned it,
I didn't have any, I wasn't employed at the time,
I was at university level, I wasn't using it,
the master's thesis I was pretending to do.
I basically, a friend of mine knew it and used it
and he found it quite nifty.
And when I looked at him using it,
I thought, well, this could be quite a powerful tool.
And ultimately I had a few small tasks to automate
and I feel like I can't remember what they were now,
but they made similar kinds of things.
I had say a hundred files to rename,
or I needed to extract the text out of 15 Excel files
and join them together.
Simple things like that, that you could do by hand,
it would take you a couple of hours and it would be done,
or it would possibly error prone,
you'd make mistakes and so forth.
So I turned to Python for that kind of thing.
And ultimately I found before I knew it,
that I had 50 Python files on my system
doing one thing well once.
- And you learn other little,
you're like, oh, this time I got to work with Excel.
Now you know how to talk to Excel files.
Oh, this one's got to talk to a database.
Now I know how to talk to a database.
- Exactly it.
- But they're not huge projects.
- No, and to think of an example,
I acquired some music of some form
and I didn't like the way it was,
the MP3 tags were done at the time.
So then I had to figure out a Python library
to do whatever those things are called,
itags or tags or whatever.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
- I've forgotten exactly what the, ID.
- Excerpt, yeah.
- That's the one, yeah.
So I had to figure that out.
And so suddenly I know about a new module
and I would suggest in all honesty
that the best way to learn some Python easily
is the next time you find yourself sitting down
and thinking, "Well, this will take me a couple of hours
to click and drag and push the buttons," whatever,
think about if you can write some Python to do it instead.
And keep doing that, and before you know it,
anything you can't write some Python to do
becomes an irritating problem
because you're used to writing scripts
to solve all your problems.
- That's right, that's why we both said,
"Oh, we have all these scripts just laying around."
- Exactly, yeah.
- Patrick, what do you think?
- I can just agree.
Automate everything.
That's my answer to that.
And if you want to go forward,
the problem is you only come so far with that,
like self-learning.
At some point you have to get in touch
with more experienced people.
And that's my second answer to that.
So at some point, go to a company
or go to an open source project where you have a mentor,
where you have people, where you can grow,
which give you the experience
which you only can get from other people.
- Right, right.
Yeah, you take some online courses,
you can join something like Python Discord.
There's a lot of options for where you can find that.
But yeah, maybe even that means find a job where you can,
you're not the smartest person in the room in that area.
Right, it's like,
'cause at that point you got no one left to ask.
You're just on the internet,
on Stack Overflow hunting around.
And so that can be also a big help.
- Yeah.
- Never be the smartest person in the room.
You should avoid it.
- Exactly, exactly.
Also says there are some good books out there
like "Automate the Boring Stuff" by Al Swager.
It's definitely a good book.
- Yeah, that's excellent.
- Yeah, I recommend that.
It's in the same vein of what we've been talking about.
- Yes.
- I was gonna say I would have recommended
Mark Pilgrim's "Dive into Python"
but it's quite a few years out of date now
and it does really consume you now to develop software
but that's also,
that was what taught me a lot of useful things.
- Yeah, for sure.
- For sure, for sure.
Okay.
Yeah, other questions, you guys?
Got a few more minutes.
We've got maybe five minutes and then-
- So Kim, I think you can choose, right?
So I already stole one of your questions.
- The one about notebook themes or was it?
- Yeah, I mean, SQLite and MongoDB, right?
There's one which we kind of-
- Okay.
Well, in that case, maybe if you've got a few minutes,
Michael, I'm gonna self-indulgently ask you
the question I submitted if that makes sense,
'cause I think there's some value there to a lot of people.
What I basically asked you was more
about the software industry,
and what you're saying in your conversations
with people over the last year or year plus, et cetera,
particularly in the COVID times,
have you noticed an increased appetite for employers
to be willing to have the developers?
- So, yes, yeah, no, I--
- Absolutely, we're, yeah, we're--
- I know, yeah, yeah.
Has the pandemic hastened acceptance of employees
from outside the employee's country?
- It's so interesting.
- And I also, as a South African,
and there's lots of small nations like mine,
we've got a small software industry, for example.
But if I think of say, Lesotho and Swaziland,
our two nearest neighbors,
if you wanna do any kind of software work,
you have to at least come to South Africa.
And I'm wondering if the scope is opening
for those of us from countries like ours
to do more global work.
Short answer, I absolutely, yeah, I definitely, definitely think so.
I have worked from home in some fashion or another remotely since 2006.
And that's, those are earlier days of where it was a little bit,
and I ended up there in an interesting way. I worked for this company that I love working for,
and they said, well, my wife got her PhD and we moved from the West Coast to the East Coast,
so she could go to a university and teach there.
And so I spoke to the company I worked at and I said,
"Hey, I'm not gonna completely hold back my wife's career
just so I can stay working.
I have to move, we're moving.
Would you like me to still work for you?
We can figure out something remote."
And they're like, "I don't think it's gonna work.
I don't think we can do this remotely."
All right, I'll find something else.
Coincidentally, a great company reached out to me
a week later, said, "Hey, we'd love to give you a job
and it's like traveling around or remote, whatever."
It's like, fantastic, I'll take it.
(laughing)
I moved away, the other company called me and said,
"Well, are you gonna maybe keep working for us?"
Like, no, I asked, you said no, like,
I took another job, I'm gone, right?
That was kind of the thing, it was like,
there was, maybe we can make it work,
I really like working with you, but probably not,
was the way, and I think that's less so,
but it still persisted up until 2019.
There were many companies like,
we're gonna get this huge campus,
we're gonna get an amazing office.
Yeah, you gotta commute for an hour and a half
and be on some random bus in a bunch of traffic,
but it's fine, we'll give the bus wifi.
And you're gonna love it, right?
And then it was, you can either go out of business
or you can let people work from home.
Like, oh, you know what?
Work from home is good.
We don't mind this at all.
And I think specifically for software developers,
what has happened is we built up tools and ways of working
that are already perfect for this disconnected async way.
We've got Git, we've got GitHub or something like it.
We've got Zoom and other forms of screen sharing.
We've got voiceover IP.
We've got the way to say,
"Hey, let's work on this project together.
I'll just fire up screen sharing."
And it's better than if I sit at your desk
'cause we both can control the keyboard
and I can see it right in front of me.
I'm not like off to the side, you know?
And I think there's a lot of companies
that are realizing that worked.
- Yeah, we're definitely privileged.
- Yeah. - What was that Patrick?
- Oh, we're privileged for that.
- Yeah, yeah, absolutely.
And so what I think is there were many companies
who still believed maybe it's possible, but it's not for us.
And they were forced to realize that didn't break everything
So maybe we can hire the best talent around the world,
not the best talent out of just Oklahoma City
or out of Lisbon or whatever, right?
Like we can all of a sudden really expand out
and do something amazing.
So not every company is gonna come along for that ride,
but I think many, many more.
- That's encouraging, yeah.
I do agree with you there entirely.
I mean, particularly in the South African context,
quite a lot of employers have had to have
some of the employees work from home.
There was a time we all worked from home,
but quite a lot of people are now back in the office,
but restrictions on gatherings to kind of try to combat
spread of COVID have meant you can't fill the building.
So in many cases, the IT staff are the ones
who are working from home because you're right,
we are the best equipped to do this.
Now we're using Git collaboratively, et cetera.
We're mainly talking to servers
that aren't our computers anyhow.
- Exactly.
- So you do that from-
- It's not the office that will do it.
- Yeah, the data center is no longer down the hall
behind the VPN.
The data center is out on Amazon or whatever.
- Yeah, for that matter,
even if it is down the hall behind the VPN,
you're still talking to it remotely.
You just were sitting at a desk above it
instead of at home.
So that I think I would like to think,
and I must hasten to add,
if my employer happens to be listening,
I'm not looking myself,
but there are lots of people in the South African
otherwise environment,
smaller industries like ours
where there's talent there,
and most people don't necessarily know,
you wouldn't come looking to South Africa
for a software developer, for example,
if, as you say, you're not Oklahoma City.
But maybe there is kind of a good sign
that we'll start expanding this kind of look.
- I think so.
I think it's gonna be progressive,
but certainly the trends are in that way.
Everybody's been shocked into realizing
how this is going to work.
And I think, honestly,
there's probably some managers and some business leaders
who are like, I actually don't even wanna go back
to the office.
I kinda like working from home too.
Like I hate the traffic.
- Yeah.
- Not everyone.
Like, yeah, I heard Tim Cook is like,
oh, I can't wait till we get back together.
This is what makes us special.
And I don't know, maybe it is, maybe it isn't.
But I think there's still gonna be a lot of people
who are like, actually, this is a pretty good way
for us to work.
- Exactly, yeah.
I think there's a lot of people along the lines of,
I'd like to see my colleagues every now and then,
but keep working from home most of the time.
That would be--
- Yeah, so, what we did at that company
that I was remote for from 2006 to 2015, I guess it was,
we would have once or twice yearly retreats.
We would go to some fun town and spend a week together.
- Yes.
- And do basically like sprints
or do presentations to each other.
And it was great team building, right?
We'd go to Toronto, we'd go to New Orleans
or go to London or something like that
and spend a week together.
And then we'd all go back to our remote places.
But even just that one week together
in that face-to-face time creates deeper relationships
that when you reach you,
oh, now I feel comfortable to reach out to that person
on Slack and ask for help or whatever, right?
- Exactly, yeah.
That's the one thing that is missing.
Sorry, Patrick.
- I think the pandemic showed a lot of people
who are a lot of deciders that there are many advantages
in allowing remote work.
It's like you get better people, you get more people.
You don't have to pay for offices,
which is like a big deal, right?
And people are more willing to come to your company.
It's incredible.
- You might even like,
don't tell all the people who are working,
but you might even get more time,
productive hours from people.
they're less likely to get distracted walking down the hall.
They're not spent commuting.
If they had a long commute,
they might just show up a half hour early.
You could actually get more productivity out of people.
Not always, I mean, there's people who watch me,
but you don't necessarily wanna keep working
with those people.
- Well, thanks.
That covers what I was asking quite well.
Thank you very much.
- All right, gentlemen, I think we might be out of time,
even if we're not out of questions entirely.
- Yeah, there's probably good another...
The questions we could also suck, there's a lot of...
- Yeah, absolutely.
And Kim, thanks for finding a way back on the internet,
even though you're...
I know you're on a limited connection now.
You had to go--
- I'm trying to get back to this call,
but here you are, awesome.
- All the times they have an internet related issue,
to be honest.
It's fine, it's been fine for months.
(laughing)
- One of my first live streams,
it's not common that the power goes out around here,
but it does happen.
We have a lot of trees at Ball & Lime.
Like five minutes before it started,
poof, the power in the whole house,
including the router and everything went out.
So I had to go, tethered up my phone.
It was really dark because all my lights stopped working,
but nobody said, "Why are you so dark?"
Yeah, glad you're able to make it work.
So I guess let's do the wrap up real quick.
- I lost you guys again.
- Yeah, yeah, no worries, no worries.
So let's just do the wrap up real quick
and just do a quick favorite editor
or editor use for Python code
and then notable PyPI project.
Kim, if you're here, go first.
- Actually, Patrick, you take it.
We'll switch back to you in a second.
- So I'm using this code.
I like the GUI, although I like the order completion
and intelligence of PyCharm more.
But PyLance is making a great leap in that regard.
- Yeah, you started using PyLance over just the Python add-in
and you find it makes a difference.
- It's pretty good.
It's not PyCharm level yet, but I think it's getting there.
And yeah, Kim, are you?
- Yeah, I'm here, yeah, so in my case,
I would love to use VS Code.
I've tried to use VS Code.
I know I should be using a modern tool
that's under active development like VS Code
'cause new things are added to it all the time,
but my fingers remember Emacs,
and I keep coming back to Emacs
because that's how I'm most productive.
it is too frustrating to try anything else.
And I'm sure at some point I will just bite the bullet,
sit down and work through the frustration point
and just get myself into VS Code
or something that actually sees development.
I'm being slightly unfair to the Emacs guys,
but I think nobody would disagree
if VS Code sees more development than say Emacs does.
- Yeah, VS Code.
- Emacs is where my fingers are.
It's muscle memory demands Emacs.
- Yeah, and if you said Vim,
like a lot of PyCharm and VS Code have Vim modes.
- Yeah, there's a set of Emacs bindings for VS Code,
but it's just not the same.
I rely on things that only Emacs can do,
things that were probably designed roughly
before I was born, but I want those things,
and I keep coming back to them.
- Yeah, and did you just like your code to run on,
your editor to run on Lisp?
- Well, yes, I have actually tried to write some Lisp,
but that's in its own right, terrifying.
- Yeah, it definitely is.
And Samuel says, yeah, you might be able
to find some Emacs.
- I've tried them.
And they work, but there's underlying emacs behavior
that I'm just so used to that I just can't get around
not having basically.
- The window is freaking you out, the hat window.
- Exactly, it's basically I boiled down to being kind of old
and stuck in my ways is what I'm politely saying.
- Yeah, got it.
All right, then you guys quick notable PyPI package.
- Kim, you wanna start?
- Sure, I actually was going to suggest,
I was going to highlight two Python packages
that I don't think see a lot of attention
and they are fairly niche, but I use them a great deal,
particularly when I was doing embedded type software
because a lot of those devices you talk to
have RS232 serial and that kind of low level stuff.
And there's a project called Pi Serial
and a project called Pi Visa,
both of which are under active development
and both of which I would recommend to anybody
who is getting into RS232 Arduino type embedded work,
et cetera, Pi Serial more so for that,
it's brilliant at RS232 work,
it can simplify a lot of things.
You might be finding yourself spending a lot of time
in a terminal doing this by hand.
So, PySerial can really help
with a lot of this kind of automation.
And then PyVisa is very niche,
but I just wanted to give it a shout out
'cause I don't think anybody ever does,
and it's helped me a lot for years.
Visa is the protocol effectively
that controls industrial automation.
So, things like industrial power supplies and multimeters
and the kind of things you find scattered around factories
that turns on and moves things around.
- Python is a perfect way to automate that kind of stuff.
- Exactly.
Python does it very well.
I mean, National Instruments has built LabVIEW
to be exactly the tool for this.
But if you're tired of LabVIEW and if you're into Python,
I would hesitate to guess to say LabVIEW
maybe annoys you like it annoyed me.
Something like PyVisa is a great way
to get away from LabVIEW for everything
and Python can do a lot of this kind
of automation work instead.
- Yeah, fantastic.
Patrick, package?
So I wanna mention Click,
which is a package for building CLI applications.
I don't know, I think you already mentioned it
at some point, but I just love it.
- Yeah, oh, awesome.
So instead of using like argparse or just like sys.args,
like you get-
- It has some flask wipe with decorators.
It's because the creator of Flask
also created Click, I think.
- Yeah, it's interesting.
There's these CLI frameworks and these web frameworks,
And it seems like multiple times
the people that make the web stuff
also create a CLI framework.
I guess there must be something going on there.
- Yeah. - But yeah,
that's cool.
Yeah, click is quite popular and neat.
- Yeah, there's also typer,
which is built on click,
which is even like even easier
and then uses type hints if you're interested, Michael.
- Yeah, that's cool.
That's nifty.
- Yeah.
- It's maybe just worth pointing out
that you mentioned sys.org and org-pos.
since Ogg Boss is bundled into the Python library,
if you are still using sys.ogg,
Ogg Boss might be worth a look.
You know, if you don't want to install
any third party applications,
you can now get your hands on at least Ogg Boss.
- Yeah, there's some-- - Closer to--
- Yeah, cool, good advice.
There's definitely something to be said
for you don't have to pip install anything.
You don't have to create a virtual environment.
You can just run it.
And so if using Click would push you into that boundary,
maybe it's worth sticking with this, right?
- Yes. - Yeah.
- We also have it in our production system
because at some point we weren't able
to use a personal VM.
Now we can with PECS,
but before we had to use what was there,
which was basically nothing.
- Interesting, okay.
Yeah, yeah.
That's part of the advantage of PECS.
All right, Patrick, Kim,
thank you for hosting this.
This has been great.
- No, thank you, Michael.
My apologies that I wasn't here for some of it.
I hope I didn't miss too much.
- It was great.
- The bulk of it that I was here for,
I thoroughly enjoyed.
- Thank you, that was very good.
- Thank you for having us.
- Yeah, thanks guys.
See you later.
- Bye.
- Thank you very much.
Cheers guys.
- Cheers.
Thanks everyone out there on the live stream
for being here and all the questions.
See you next time.
[BLANK_AUDIO]